# Maximum Subsequence Score 

two 0-indexed integer nums1 and nums2 of length n and positive integer k
choose subsequence of indices from nums1 of length k

the sum selected from nums1 multiplied with minimum of the selected elements from nums2

从nums1 中选长度为K 的子序列的下标
对对应元素求和然后乘以 nums2中对应元素的最小值。

## Priority Queue

focus on minimum of the selected elements from nums2.
if we pick nums2[i] as minimum, then the other element rest is larger or equal  to nums2[i]

sorted nums2 by decreasing order(store nums1[i], nums2[i]) as pair then sort the collection based on nums2[i]

the second term has been fixed as nums2[i], maximum the total score by maximizing the first term. selecting the maximum k elements from nums1 including nums1[i]

ex: nums1 = [1,3,3,2]
    nums2 = [2,1,3,4]
    based on nums2 value sorted, we will have: 
    nums1 = [2,3,1,3]
    nums2 = [4,3,2,1]

    iterate  over every nums2[i] and treat it as the minimum in the selected group.
    i = 2, the minimum is 2
    top_k sum = 2+3+1 =6, minimum_2 = 2
    when i =3, the minium is 1, we need to pop the smallest from top-k and add nums1[3] to it. 
    top_ k=2+3+3=8
    minimum is =1

## Algorithm

1. Store every pair (nums1[i], nums2[i]) in array pairs, and sort pairs by the second element (nums2[i]) in decreasing order.

2. Use a min-heap top_k_heap to store the first k nums1[i] and a variable top_k_sum to store their sum.
3. Initialize answer as the sum of elements in top_k_heap (i.e. top_k_sum) times pairs[k - 1][1].
4. Iterate over indices starting from k, at each index i:
    Remove the smallest element stored in top_k_heap and from top_k_sum.
    Add the current nums1[i] to the heap and top_k_sum.
    Get the current score as the sum of top_k_heap (i.e. top_k_sum) times nums2[i], and update answer as the maximum score we have met.

5. Return answer.

```Python
class Solution:
    def maxScore(self, nums1: List[int], nums2: List[int], k: int) -> int:
        #sorting list of tuples in reverse order.
        #the element in nums are sorted based on the values in nums2 in descending   order.
        # prioritize select elements from nums2 with higher values 
        nums=sorted(zip(nums2,nums1),reverse=True)
        # q use as heap to keep track of k largest elements from nums1
        q=[]
        #store the maximum score
        ans = s=0
        # a is element from nums2,b is element from nums1
        for a,b in nums:
            s+=b
            heapq.heappush(q,b)
            if len(q) ==k:
                ans =max(ans,s*a)
                s-=heapq.heappop(q)
        return ans
```