
# 198.House Robber

relate: Array and Dynamic Programming

## Approach 1: Recursion with Memoization

### Subproblems

we need broken down into sub-problems.
We have function robFrom to solve it. The input is index,position. The position indicates the robber has yet to scan house [position,...,N] where N is the total number of houses.

the answer will be call robFrom(0),which scan all houses and return maximum profit. <font color = Blue> robFrom(i) represents sub-array or suffix from the main array. the robber has to maximize profit from i to N houses</font>

each step, robber has two options. rob current house or skip to next house onthe list by moving two steps forward.if not rob current house, simply move to next house.

<font color =Red> robFrom(i) = max(robFrom(i+1),robFrom(i+2)+nums(i))</font>

Step:

1. define function called,take index of house currently has to examine. takes nums array which is required.
2. each step of recursive call, two option. either rob the current hosue or not.
   1. if rob current house, skip the next house robFrom(i+2,nums).answer is the thing return by this call and addition the amount of money robber rob in current house nums[i]
   2. otherwise, move on the next house and return robfrom(i+1,nums)
3.find,cache,return the maximum

4. robFrom(0,nums) givve the answer to entire problem.

```python
class Solution:
    
    def __init__(self):
        self.memo = {}
    
    def rob(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        
        self.memo = {}
        
        return self.robFrom(0, nums)
    
    def robFrom(self, i, nums):
        
        
        # No more houses left to examine.
        if i >= len(nums):
            return 0
        
        # Return cached value.
        if i in self.memo:
            return self.memo[i]
        
        # Recursive relation evaluation to get the optimal answer.
        ans = max(self.robFrom(i + 1, nums), self.robFrom(i + 2, nums) + nums[i])
        
        # Cache for future use.
        self.memo[i] = ans
        return ans
```

Time complexity: O(n), most n recursive calls,
space: O(n) which is occupied by the cache,

