# Top Interview Question List

## Easy

### 1.Two Sum

[Two Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum/description/)


    Relate Topic: Array, Hash_Table

While we are iterating and inserting elements into the hash table, we also look back to check if current element's complement already exists in the hash table. If it exists, we have found a solution and return the indices immediately.

Time Complexity : O(n), we traverse the list containing n elements only once. The lookup in hash table cost only O(1)time.

Space Complexity: O(n).We store the element in hash,table,which stores at most n elements.

```python
class Solution:
    def twoSum(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> List[int]:
        hashmap = {}
        for i in range(len(nums)):
            complement = target - nums[i]
            if complement in hashmap:
                return [i, hashmap[complement]]
            hashmap[nums[i]] = i
```

### 13.Roman To Integer

What is DXCI as an integer?

Recall that D = 500.

Now, notice that this time the symbols are not ordered from most significant to least—the X and C are out of numeric order. Because of this, we subtract the value of X (10) from the value of C (100) to get 90.

So, going from left to right, we have D + (C - X) + I = 500 + 90 + 1 = 591.

What is CMXCIV as an integer?

Recall that M = 1000.

The symbols barely look sorted at all here—from left-to-right we have 100, 1000, 10, 100, 1, 5. Do not panic though, we just need to look for each occurrence of a smaller symbols preceding a bigger symbol. The first, third, and fifth symbols are all smaller than their next symbol. Therefore they are all going to be subtracted from their next.

The first two symbols are CM. This is M - C = 1000 - 100 = 900
The second two symbols are XC. This is C - X = 100 - 10 = 90.
The final two symbols are IV. This is V - I = 5 - 1 = 4.
Like we did above, we add these together. (M - C) + (C - X) + (V - I) = 900 + 90 + 4 = 994.

Left-To-Right Pass : 
hard-code a mpy with value of each symbol.

<font color=#DC143C> Each symbols adds its own value, except for when smaller valued symbol is before larger valued symbol. In that case, we need subtract the large from small and adding that instead.</font>

use pointer to scan through the string.

```python
values = {
    "I": 1,
    "V": 5,
    "X": 10,
    "L": 50,
    "C": 100,
    "D": 500,
    "M": 1000,
}

class Solution:
    def romanToInt(self, s: str) -> int:
        total = 0
        i = 0
        while i < len(s):
            # If this is the subtractive case.
            if i + 1 < len(s) and values[s[i]] < values[s[i + 1]]:
                total += values[s[i + 1]] - values[s[i]]
                i += 2
            # Else this is NOT the subtractive case.
            else:
                total += values[s[i]]
                i += 1
        return total
```

Time complexity: 
O(1): the roman numbers are finite set the time could be O(1)
If roman numberals had arbitary number of symbols ,then the time woulde be O(n), which n is the length of string, and look up time for each symbol is O(1)

Space:O(1) only use constant number of single-value variables.

### 20.Valid Parentheses






