# Merge Strings Alternately

you are given two strings word1 and word2. Merge the strings by adding letters in alternating order,starting with word1. if a string is longer than the other, append the additional letters onto the end of the merged string.
return the merged string.

input: word1 = "abc", word2="pqr"
output: apbqcr

input: word1 = "ab",word2="pqrs"
output: apbqrs

## Two pointer

iterate over both strings. two pointers i, j with i point to the first letter of word1 and j point to the first letter of word2.create an empty string results to store the outcome.

append the letter pointed to by pointer i, word[i] and incremetn i by 1 to point to the next letter of word1. <font color=Blue>we need to add the letters in alternating order,next we append word2[j] to resutls. we also increase j by 1.</font>

iterating over the given string until both are done. we stop appending letters from word1 when i reaches the end of word1, and we stop appending letters from word2' when j reaches the end of word2

## Algorithms

1. two variables m,n to store the length of word1 and word2
2. create empty string result to store the result of merged words.
3. create two pointers i, j to point to the indices of word1 and word2 initialize it to 0.
4. while i <m || j < n
   1. if i <m, we have not completely traversed word1. we append word1[i] to result
   2. if j <n, same meaning as above. append word2[j] to result and increment j to the next index of words.
5.return results.
<font color=Red>Strings are immutable in python. we used the list result to append letters and later joined the list with an empty string to return it as a string object.
The join takes linear time equal to lengh of results to merge</font>

```Python
def mergeAlternately(self,word1,word2):
   m,n = len(word1),len(word2)
   i,j =0,0
   result =[]
   while i < m or j<n:
      if i <m:
         result+=word1[i]
         i+=1
      if j <n:
         result+=word2[j]
         j+=1
   return "".join(result)
```

Time complexity is O(m+n)
space is O(1)



